p: "The Kingsroad" is the second episode of the first season of Game of Thrones. It is the second episode of the series overall. It premiered on April 24, 2011 on HBO. It was written by David Benioff and D.B. Weiss, and directed by Tim Van Patten.
h2: Contents
h2: Premise[]
p: The Lannisters plot to ensure Bran's silence; Jon and Tyrion head to the Wall; Ned faces a family crisis en route to King's Landing.[5]
h2: Synopsis[]
h3: In the Dothraki Sea[]
p: The Dothraki khalasar led by Khal Drogo have departed Pentos and are heading east. They travel away from the Free Cities and into the Dothraki Sea, the long-grassed plains that the Dothraki call home. Viserys Targaryen accompanies the khalasar, meaning to stay with Drogo until he fulfills his end of the bargain and provides him with an army with which to invade Westeros, despite Ser Jorah Mormont's suggestion. He tells Viserys that he offended his liege lord, Eddard Stark, by selling poachers into slavery. When he received word that Eddard meant to execute him for the crime, he fled to Essos. Viserys laughs at the notion, saying that such trivialities will not be punished under his reign. Daenerys is finding adapting to her new role as khaleesi to be a huge challenge: she is fearful of her new husband and their first sexual encounter has left her slightly injured. Only Mormont offers her some solace, telling her that it will become easier.
p: One evening, Drogo spends time drinking with his warriors before going into his tent to pay a visit to Daenerys. He violently takes her from behind, and she is visibly uncomfortable, only finding solace in her dragon eggs. Later, an increasingly curious Dany asks her handmaidens if they have ever heard of dragons surviving in the east. They reply no, but Doreah tells her an old story about how there used to be two moons in the sky; one wandered too close to the sun and cracked like an egg, spilling out thousands of dragons into the world. Dany's Dothraki handmaidens Irri and Jhiqui dismiss the story, saying that the moon is a goddess, wife to the sun.
p: Daenerys seeks the advice of her handmaid Doreah, who instructs Daenerys on how to please Drogo in bed but also how to use her skills to gain respect from him. Doreah tells Daenerys that she is no slave, and should not have sex like one. Daenerys nervously puts these plans into action and is surprised to find Drogo responsive, particularly once she starts using her body in combination with the Dothraki language to speak to him.
h3: In the North[]
p: Robb says farewell to Jon.
p: At Winterfell, Bran Stark lies unconscious and badly wounded, his mother by his side. Tyrion Lannister insists to his nephew Joffrey that Joffrey pay his respects to Lord and Lady Stark, since his absence has been noted. When Joffrey refuses, saying the boy means nothing to him, Tyrion slaps Joffrey three times until he accepts his uncle's suggestion. Tyrion then breaks his fast with the rest of his family, informing them of his decision to journey north to see the Wall before returning to King's Landing. He also tells them that Bran is expected to live and notes Cersei and Jaime's guarded reactions.
p: Cersei visits Catelyn Stark, who is sitting by her son's side, and tells her that her first child, a beautiful black-haired boy, died of a fever. She and Robert were grief-stricken and her prayers and tears were for naught. She offers to pray for Bran's survival, hoping that this time the gods will listen.
p: Jon Snow has Winterfell's blacksmith, Mikken, forge a light sword for his sister Arya. Arya is excited by the gift and names it Needle. Jon also gives her advice on how to best use the weapon: "Stick them with the pointy end." Jon urges Arya to practice every chance she gets and they hug. Jon then visits his still-comatose Bran to say his farewells and kisses his forehead, before departing at his stepmother's cold request. Eddard then says his goodbyes to his son and to a grieved Catelyn, who is angered at his departure while Bran remains ill. Outside, Robb and Jon hug each other before they depart, hoping to see each other soon.
p: The two parties depart Winterfell.
p: The parties depart Winterfell: Jon, Tyrion, and Benjen Stark north to the Wall; and Eddard, Arya, Sansa, and the royal party south to King's Landing. At their parting, Eddard tells Jon, "You are a Stark. You might not have my name, but you have my blood." Ned also promises Jon to tell him about his mother the next time they see each other.
p: Eddard says goodbye to his bastard son.
p: Days later, on the Kingsroad south to the capital, King Robert Baratheon calls a halt to discuss with Eddard some dire news that has just arrived: Robert's spies have learned of Daenerys Targaryen's marriage to Khal Drogo, whose khalasar is reported to number over one hundred thousand warriors. Eddard points out that the Dothraki cannot cross the Narrow Sea, as they have no ships, but Robert is concerned that the Seven Kingdoms will soon face another war. Robert asks Eddard about Wylla, the mother of his bastard son, but Eddard refuses to enlighten him. Robert reminds him that at that time, they were in the middle of a war and no one knew if they would ever return to their families.
p: At Winterfell, Catelyn's refusal to leave Bran's side is starting to cause problems for the smooth running of the castle. Robb offers to work with Maester Luwin to put the castle to rights. There is then a fire in the castle, but this proves to be a distraction to allow an assassin to attempt to finish off Bran. Catelyn holds the assassin off long enough for Bran's direwolf Summer to enter the chamber and tear out the assassin's throat.
p: Jon and Tyrion discussing matters.
p: Traveling north, Jon and Tyrion talk, and Tyrion explains that he reads books to sharpen his mind, his greatest asset and weapon. As they travel north, the party is joined by several new recruits: rapers who chose to "take the black" rather than be gelded. Tyrion tells Jon that the Night's Watch is not the noble institution it once was, idealized with glorious knights defending the realm against the horrors lurking beyond the Wall, and says that Jon is smarter than to believe the stories his wet nurse told him about "grumkins and snarks" and other monsters. The party later reaches the Wall. Benjen welcomes them, and Tyrion seems impressed by the Wall's size.
p: At Winterfell, Catelyn goes to the tower that Bran fell from and finds a strand of blonde hair on the floor. She summons Robb, Theon, Luwin, and Rodrik Cassel to tell them that she suspects that the Lannisters tried to kill Bran because he might have seen something in the tower. Robb and Theon are eager for conflict, but Luwin schools them to caution. Catelyn decides that Ned must know the truth and resolves to travel south to King's Landing and meet him there. Ser Rodrik escorts Catelyn while Robb remains in Winterfell to rule the castle in her absence.
h3: At the Inn at the Crossroads[]
p: On the Kingsroad, the royal party reaches the Inn at the Crossroads, a noted way-stop on the road south to the capital. Prince Joffrey's bodyguard, Sandor Clegane introduces Sansa to Ser Ilyn Payne, the king's headsman, a frightening-looking man who had his tongue torn out on the orders of the Mad King many years ago. Joffrey saves Sansa from this unpleasantness and takes her for a walk along the riverbank. They find Arya practicing her sword work with Mycah, the son of the party's butcher. Joffrey pretends to take offense at Mycah using a sword on the sister of his betrothed and starts to gleefully cut Mycah's face with his sword Lion's Tooth, but an outraged Arya hits him on the head with a stick. Joffrey quickly becomes violent and threatens Arya at sword point, but before he can hurt her, Arya's direwolf Nymeria attacks Joffrey, biting at his arm. Mycah runs off, and Arya throws Lion's Tooth in the river before running off herself. Sansa tries to help Joffrey, but he spitefully tells her to leave him alone.
p: Arya, knowing that Nymeria will be punished for injuring the prince, forces the direwolf to flee by throwing a rock at her. She is then taken before the King, who is angered that a minor quarrel has become a major incident, with his wife and new Hand blaming each other's children. Joffrey offers a false account of the incident, and Cersei asks Sansa to confirm it. Put in an impossible position, Sansa refuses to contradict him, enraging Arya. The king decides to let Ned discipline Arya while he will do the same to Joffrey, but Cersei demands that the direwolf be put down. When Nymeria cannot be found, Cersei spitefully requests that Sansa's direwolf Lady be killed instead, and Robert acquiesces, upsetting Sansa and further angering Arya.
p: Furious, Eddard attends to the matter himself, passing the Hound arriving with Mycah's bloodied corpse. Eddard is shocked and disgusted, and when he asks if the Hound rode Mycah down, the Hound responds that he ran, but not very fast. Eddard kills Lady with a dagger, and hundreds of miles away, Bran awakens.
h2: Appearances[]
h3: Firsts[]
h3: Deaths[]
h2: Cast[]
h3: Starring[]
h3: Also starring[]
h3: Guest starring[]
h3: Uncredited[]
h3: Notes[]
h2: Quotes[]
